DOCS:  GitLab Integration guide (#2800)
pomerium/pomerium: docs/guides/gitlab.md

:::

### Prepare The Environment

1. Configure volumes for persistent data. GitLab suggests defining the environment variable `$GITLAB_HOME` to the root directory for its mounted volumes:

    ```bash
    export GITLAB_HOME=/srv/gitlab #Adjust the path based on your common Docker volume location.
    ```

1. In the `$GITLAB_HOME` directory, create three sub-directories: `config`, `data`, and `logs`.

    ```bash
    mkdir $GITLAB_HOME/{config,data,logs}
    ```

1. In `$GITLAB_HOME/config` create the directory `ssl`. Move the internal certificate and key, created by mkcert in this example, to the new path:

    ```bash
    mkdir $GITLAB_HOME/config/ssl
    mv gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.pem $GITLAB_HOME/config/ssl/
    mv gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.key.pem $GITLAB_HOME/config/ssl/
    ```

### Install and Configure GitLab

1. Create the docker container. The example command below includes custom configuration options in the `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` variable:

    ```bash
    docker run --detach \
      --hostname gitlab-ee \
      --name gitlab \
      --restart always \

>       --publish 8443:443 --publish 8080:80 --publish 2022:22 \

Reviewer: ```
      --publish 8443:443 --publish 8080:80 --publish 2022:22 \
```

I think we'd want to expose, not publish those ports. Otherwise external traffic can hit those ports directly afaik.

  ```yaml
    - from: tcp+https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io
      to: tcp://gitlab-ee:22
      pass_identity_headers: true
      tls_custom_ca_file: /mkcert/rootCA.pem
      tls_server_name: gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io
      preserve_host_header: true
      policy:
        - allow:
            or:
              - groups:
                  has: devs@example.com
  ```

1. Once this route is applied, users can create an encrypted connection using [pomerium-cli] or the [Pomerium Desktop] app:

    ::::: tabs
    :::: tab Pomerium-CLI
    ```bash
    pomerium-cli tcp gitlab.pomerium.localhost.io:22 --listen :2202
    ```

    The `--listen` key defines what port the tunnel listens at locally.
    ::::
    :::: tab Pomerium Desktop
    ![An encrypted tunnel for git connections using Pomerium Desktop](./img/gitlab/gitlab-desktop-connection.png)
    ::::
    :::::

1. Add the tunneled connection as a remote:

    ```bash
    git remote add gitlab-tunneled ssh://git@127.0.0.1:2202/username/project-name
    ```

Now when you first initiate a `pull`, `push`, or `fetch` command your web browser will open to authenticate and authorize the connection.

## Identity Management

> While GitLab has a [JWT OmniAuth provider], it only accepts a json web token (**JWT**) as a callback url parameter and not as an HTTP header as [provided by pomerium](/reference/readme.md#pass-identity-headers). If your IdP is a [supported Omniauth provider](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/omniauth.html#supported-providers), you can integrate it directly to GitLab to re-use your current session, but it will require signing in twice, once with Pomerium and again with GitLab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While GitLab has a [JWT OmniAuth provider], it only accepts a JSON web token (**JWT**) as a callback url parameter and not as an HTTP header as [provided by pomerium](/reference/readme.md#pass-identity-headers). If your IdP is a [supported Omniauth provider](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/omniauth.html#supported-providers), you can integrate it directly to GitLab to re-use your current session, but it will require signing in twice, once with Pomerium and again with GitLab:
```

---
title: GitLab
lang: en-US
meta:
  - name: keywords
    content: >-
      pomerium identity-access-proxy gitlab gitlab-ee docker
      authentication authorization
description: >-
  This guide covers how to secure self-hosted GitLab behind Pomerium, providing authentication and authorization through your IdP.
---

# GitLab

[GitLab] is a highly customizable, highly configurable tool to manage source code, project management, and many other aspects of project development. In addition to the SaaS product, its self-hosted solution and easy free-to-enterprise upgrade path make it a popular choice for those managing sensitive code bases.

This guide demonstrates how to configure a self-hosted GitLab server (a.k.a. gitlab-ee) behind Pomerium for identity-aware access.

## Before You Being

- This guide is written for an environment using [Docker Compose].

- This guide assumes a running instance of Pomerium, already configured with an identity Provider (**IdP**) and running as a docker container on the same host/swarm. See our [Quick-Start] page for more information on installing Pomerium with Docker Compose.

  ::: warning

>   While Pomerium can be configured to use self-hosted GitLab [as an IdP][gitlab-idp], we do not recommend doing so while also running it behind Pomerium. In addition to the potential to lock out access to the IdP (breaking access to all routes), we consider it best practice to keep a separation of services between your identity provider protected services, especially those housing sensitive data like source code.

Author: I'm not opposed to changing the phrasing, but this change suggests that the services are protected by the IdP, when they are not, which I see now that the phrase indicated as is. The original should have said:
```suggestion
  While Pomerium can be configured to use self-hosted GitLab [as an IdP][gitlab-idp], we do not recommend doing so while also running it behind Pomerium. In addition to the potential to lock out access to the IdP (breaking access to all routes), we consider it best practice to keep a separation of services between your identity provider and protected services, especially those housing sensitive data like source code.
```
Do you want to take a pass on this fixed version?

>   While Pomerium can be configured to use self-hosted GitLab [as an IdP][gitlab-idp], we do not recommend doing so while also running it behind Pomerium. In addition to the potential to lock out access to the IdP (breaking access to all routes), we consider it best practice to keep a separation of services between your identity provider protected services, especially those housing sensitive data like source code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  While Pomerium can be configured to use self-hosted GitLab [as an IdP][gitlab-idp], we do not recommend doing so while also running it behind Pomerium. In addition to the potential to lock out access to the IdP (breaking access to all routes), we consider it best practice to separate your identity provider and protected services, especially those housing sensitive data like source code.
```
I think this would work assuming I understood the intent.

    - Adjust the paths under `volumes` to match the directories created in [the previous section](#prepare-the-environment).

    ::: tip
    Additional integrations like [Mattermost](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/mattermost/) and [Pages](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/) will require additional configuration (i.e. `mattermost_nginx[*]`).
    :::

1.  Bring up the new Docker Compose configuration:

    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

    The container may take several minutes to initialize. Once complete, the status provided to `docker ps` will change from `health:starting` to `healthy`.

    You can also monitor the progress with `docker logs -f gitlab`. Note that even after the process is complete, the log file will continue to output log messages.

## Configure a Pomerium Route

Edit `config.yaml` and add a route for GitLab:

```yaml
  - from: https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io
    to: http://gitlab
    preserve_host_header: true
    policy:
      - allow:
          or:
            - domain:
                is: example.com
```

> Once the route is applied, you should be able to access GitLab from `https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io`. Note that when using Docker, you may need to restart the Pomerium container to apply the changes as file change detection can be finicky on mounted docker volumes.

Reviewer 2: No change necessary, but wanted to point out "finicky" is a niche word choice for docs

Author: I take your point, but I'm unable to find a better word.

Use `grep` within the container to find the default root password:

```bash
sudo docker exec -it gitlab grep 'Password:' /etc/gitlab/initial_root_password
```

### Configure TCP Connections

> 1. An additional route will provide an encrypted TCP tunnel through which users can securely access code using Git:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An additional route will provide an encrypted TCP tunnel through which users can securely access code using Git:
```
I don't think the number bullet is necessary as there's no secondary for this.

  ```yaml
    - from: tcp+https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io
      to: tcp://gitlab:22
      policy:
        - allow:
            or:
              - groups:
                  has: devs@example.com
  ```

1. Once this route is applied, users can create an encrypted connection using [pomerium-cli] or the [Pomerium Desktop] app:

    ::::: tabs
    :::: tab Pomerium-CLI
    ```bash
    pomerium-cli tcp gitlab.pomerium.localhost.io:22 --listen :2202
    ```

    The `--listen` key defines what port the tunnel listens at locally.
    ::::
    :::: tab Pomerium Desktop
    ![An encrypted tunnel for git connections using Pomerium Desktop](./img/gitlab/gitlab-desktop-connection.png)
    ::::
    :::::

1. Add the tunneled connection as a remote:

    ```bash
    git remote add gitlab-tunneled ssh://git@127.0.0.1:2202/username/project-name
    ```

Now when you first initiate a `pull`, `push`, or `fetch` command your web browser will open to authenticate and authorize the connection.

## Identity Management

> While GitLab has a [JWT OmniAuth provider], it only accepts a JSON web token (**JWT**) as a callback url parameter and not as an HTTP header as [provided by pomerium](/reference/readme.md#pass-identity-headers). If your IdP is a [supported Omniauth provider](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/omniauth.html#supported-providers), you can integrate it directly to GitLab to re-use your current session, but it will require signing in twice, once with Pomerium and again with GitLab:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While GitLab has a [JWT OmniAuth provider], it only accepts a JSON web token (**JWT**) as a callback url parameter and not as an HTTP header [provided by Pomerium](/reference/readme.md#pass-identity-headers). If your IdP is a [supported OmniAuth provider](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/omniauth.html#supported-providers), you can integrate it directly to GitLab to re-use your current session, but it will require signing in twice; once with Pomerium and again with GitLab:
```

<video controls  muted="true" playsinline="" width="100%" control=""><source src="./img/gitlab/gitlab-login.webm" type="video/webm">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## Upstream TLS

> As part of a complete [zero-trust][Background] security model, all connections should be encrypted and [mutually authenticated][mTLS]. An important step in this process is configuring GitLab to serve content to Pomerium using HTTPS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of a complete [zero trust][Background] security model, all connections should be encrypted and [mutually authenticated][mTLS]. An important step in this process is configuring GitLab to serve content to Pomerium using HTTPS.
```
We are standardizing with "zero trust" (no hyphen, 2 words) because it's the most common variant for SEO purposes.

          pages_nginx['listen_port'] = 80
          pages_nginx['listen_https'] = false
          mattermost_nginx['listen_port'] = 80
          mattermost_nginx['listen_https'] = false
      volumes:
        - '/srv/gitlab/config:/etc/gitlab'
        - '/srv/gitlab/logs:/var/log/gitlab'
        - '/srv/gitlab/data:/var/opt/gitlab'
      expose:
        - 80
        - 443
        - 22
      restart: always
      shm_size: '256m'
    ```

    - Adjust `external_url` and `registry_external_url` to match the external path, which we will define in Pomerium later in the process.
    - Adjust the paths under `volumes` to match the directories created in [the previous section](#prepare-the-environment).

1.  Bring up the new Docker Compose configuration:

    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

    The container may take several minutes to initialize. Once complete, the status provided to `docker ps` will change from `health:starting` to `healthy`.
    
    You can also monitor the progress with `docker logs -f gitlab`. Note that even after the process is complete, the log file will continue to output log messages.

## Configure a Pomerium Route

> Edit `config.yaml` and add a route for GitLab. Note that this example assumes access to the mkcert CA certificate at `/mkcert/rootCA.pem`:

Reviewer: > Note that this example assumes access to the mkcert CA certificate at `/mkcert/rootCA.pem`:

This appears outdated or moved to the TLS config section?

Author: ```suggestion
Edit `config.yaml` and add a route for GitLab:
```

```yaml
  - from: https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io
    to: http://gitlab
    preserve_host_header: true
    policy:
      - allow:
          or:
            - domain:
                is: example.com
```

> Once the route is applied, you should be able to access GitLab from `https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io`. Note that when using Docker, you may need to restart the Pomerium container to apply the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the route is applied, you should be able to access GitLab from `https://gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io`. Note that when using Docker, you may need to restart the Pomerium container to apply the changes as file change detection can be finicky on mounted docker volumes.
```

Not sure about verbage but I just want to point out this is a docker thing, not a us thing. Our hot reload code works but docker is weird.

      container_name: gitlab
      image: gitlab/gitlab-ee:latest
      environment:
        GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG: |
        external_url 'https://gitlab.pomerium.localhost.io'
        registry_external_url 'https://gitlab.pomerium.localhost.io'
        letsencrypt['enable'] = false
        nginx['listen_port'] = 443
        nginx['listen_https'] = true
        nginx['ssl_certificate'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.pem"
        nginx['ssl_certificate_key'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"
        registry_nginx['listen_port'] = 443
        registry_nginx['listen_https'] = true
        registry_nginx['ssl_certificate'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.pem"
        registry_nginx['ssl_certificate_key'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"
        pages_nginx['listen_port'] = 443
        pages_nginx['listen_https'] = true
        pages_nginx['ssl_certificate'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.pem"
        pages_nginx['ssl_certificate_key'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"
        mattermost_nginx['listen_port'] = 443
        mattermost_nginx['listen_https'] = true

>         mattermost_nginx['ssl_certificate'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.localhost.pomerium.io.pem"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        mattermost_nginx['ssl_certificate'] = "/etc/gitlab/ssl/ mattermost.localhost.pomerium.io.pem"
```

I'm not sure how things like pages (i assume like github pages) and mattermost are expected to work or if they should be on different domains (and need separate pomerium routes).

Author: I added this because in your last review you modified pages and mattermost settings, which I had not touched. What if we removed them from this section and [above](https://github.com/pomerium/pomerium/pull/2800/files#diff-4c55b536664cdc4b47e8d0b3bc1406046044f611716bb7cc48662aa02e70b92aR70-R75), and add a note that additional integrations may  require additional custom settings?

Author: Staged in 9a630b9dc4bb38c39fa477d522321575ca33e1df
